# Tactical 04.09.2019

## Project Updates

Purpose: Develop a Vibrant Network

* Record? \(+\)
* Work until 5:00 pm CET

## Team

* Tim: Phoebe conversation, got a lot of positive feedback on article from the community. Orgs can pay, like Aragon for the work. Maybe Gnosis on so on. Need time to sync on that. EU funding opportunities can be pursued. 
* Ela: there's still stuff around group dynamics. Would like to figure out before we move with funding.

### Max / Elect the Secretary, Facilitator

1 mo.

Secretary Nominations:

* Anja: Ela
* Ela: Ela
* Aeon: Ela \(me second\)
* Tim: Aeon / Ela
* Max: Aeon

Voting: 

* Ela ++
* Aeon +++ \(selected\)

Facilitator Nominations:

* Anja: Ela
* Ela: Ela
* Aeon: Ela
* Tim: Ela
* Max: Ela

Voting: 

* Ela +++++

### Ela / Group energy

Everyone appreciated the last call retro. Is there anything left to discuss? E.g. coming up with proposals or not feeling appreciated.

* Tim: some things are not cleared up. Felt a little bit... reflected on the dynamic between the team ~fundraising. A lot of people rely on that. At the same time it can be a dominant behaviour. This becomes more clear it repeated in dgov. Because of resistance and reflection could see it, but feel a bit lost how we do things together, feel disempowered. Looking for some navigation
* Ela: feel pretty much the same. How we can get more doing stuff. It has to do with being allowed to speak on behalf of the team. Appreciate the desire to fund our work. Maybe have the same role in Supermarkt. Probably easy, but feel a bit lost. Would like to ask Max, how to step up and do.
* Max: ...
* Ela: thinking how we can get unstuck. Endless debates can be not ptoductive
* Tim: always thought we're a doacracy. Never given enough room so I need to give authority. Wasn't true for the Tezos budget and the retreat. Really about doing something. Feel a bit burnt out. Sorry for lack of outcome
* Aeon: this tensions is more about trust and group governance. From my perspective is based on trust and shared vision. Trust the group to do things and be aligned. E.g. Tim goes for funding, doesn't need to ask me. Just be transparent and open for input, so i can provide help and share my opinion/tensions. Do not slow anyone down. More the feeling to be more appreciated.
* Anja: still haven't checked the recording. Was still a bit coming back to this planet. It's 1.5 years every week – every time the energy is super great. We can do more if it's more clear / better directed. Would discuss it inside before going for funding. There're docs tasks, input \(the final work\). When we see the funding opps – we come up with different vision. Maybe care more about the community – way to go. Still need to check recording.

### Tim / Steps forward + feedback round + Small next steps based on the feedback

Whats are the next 1-2 steps we see?

* Tim: more time with the core team – meet before the end of the year. And dgov council.
* Max: very second that. like 2 days together before council + 2 days council
* Ela: work on the retreat, feel the need in the space for us. Need to take time for that. Maybe with focus on retreat.
* Aeon: up for planning the next retreat. Also up to do small meetups in Berlin. Very motivated to communicate with the local community
* Anja: up to renew the retreat talks. Web3 people were open to host us, like Zurich or Romania. Maybe have a small call with them. Open to have new councils.

## Community

* Dgov Identity \(**Max**\) – no update, just discussions
* Survey \(**Max**\) – 11 answers so far, interested in Tim's and whoever else

### Max / Partners ISSDG+Consensys \(show map\)

### Ela / Retreat how to proceed

Haven't agreed on [the cancellation letter](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HrPMz53Ef0x4PwhbFMCysYVeZN1uAEOh3U3vFI9VNy8/edit) – pls comment. Would be nice to have something feasible.

\(Max: trust you\)

### Anja / Retreat

### Max / Next Council

## Closing thought



