# Tactical 12.06.2019

## Project Updates

* Work until 4:00 pm CET
* Coordination \(Max\) – Anja did a meetup at Carribean
* Research and share knowledge \(Max\) – no update
* Experimentation & Incubation \(Max\) – no update
* Implementation & Regulation \(Anja\) – Tim will participate in the DAO workshop, have the DAO principles doc
* Retreat in Ljubljana \(Tim\) – expected Maria and Anja to come up with locations, but no news there, no capacity to push it forward. Will ping
* Funding with Seed DAO \(Tim\) – have a point on that to discuss. There's some backlog on the marketing. Had a conversation with Decred and Colony, they and other players have tools they can provide. Very interesting opportunity is to be interdisciplinary network, but we need to finalize funding. Next step – work through solution providers, have professional knowledge about solutions. Requires attention.
* Web 3 track \(Max\) – we have some speakers \(~30% agenda ready\), have some collusion with DAO stack event. 2 weeks before read
  * Day 1 \(Tim\)
  * Day 2 \(Max\)
  * Day 3 \(Phoebe\)

## Tensions

### 1 Max / Web3+DAO stack collusion

DAO Stack is doing 2 - 6 pm on 20th, our talks will be finished by 1pm, we will have panels, so people with web3 tickets will probably stick with the panel if they like.

### 1 Phoebe / Tracks instead of days topics

Phoebe: Mix all topics in days

Max:

* planning visitor time across topics
* organizing / curating the topics from managerial point

Tim: share concerns but like the topic coding

Martin: easy enough to code by days. Not sure how speakers commit to days. Speakers can be available only on specific days. Can group and shuffle. Like everything in a day.

Phoebe: like Martin idea, have groups for selection but want to have some agility.

Tim: it changes the dynamic about the time allocation.

Max: Phoebe pls make a draft and let's see the how we can fit

### 1 Martin / Leadlink discussion

Let's assign the LL, feedback: we want this? \(responsibilities: funds distribution, role assignments\)

* Max: want, this will clarify and formalize things
* Phoebe: yeap, fits to roles discussion, we can rotate that. Everybody holds the purpose, the election can be for 6 months for example
* Tim: would be good to make explicit. welcome role conversations. If too much centralized will stay in the way
* Aeon: not sure if it includes other community members, not sure if 6 weeks is a good approach
* Martin: all see benefits, ambigious about the leadership as person, rather the role \(driver\)
* Anja?

Next point who is it. And what about rotation/revisiting.

### 1 Phoebe / Ljubljana retreat

Phoebe: There was a sense that Tim's holding this – especially dates.

Tim: need somebody to take leadership here \(Anja, Phoebe?\). Maybe we don't have a driver for this right now. Is somebody willing to take it? There're people who can support.

Phoebe: we allocate our funds? \(no\). Can make a draft budget.

Tim: we need to sell tickets in advance for security \(3 months in advance\). So probably September-October.

Phoebe: need to check with Anja and Marina \(Aeon will check\).

### 1 Martin / dgov study group

Am going to have some time to work on DAO Stack, Genesis, wiki. Looking for the research partner.

Can be Aeon, Max.

### Phoebe / Seeds DAO

### Phoebe / website

### Max / Web 3 knowledge harvest Aeon

### Max / OrgHackers Name

### Phoebe / dgov London meet up

### Phoebe / dgov funding

### Phoebe / Roles

### Tim / Funding partner and tools for dgov seed dao

### Tim / Move to spreadsheet from doc

### Tim / should we bring equipment?

### Phoebe / Attendance question

### 

