# Tactical 17.07.2019

## Project Updates

Purpose: Develop a Vibrant Network

* Work until 4:00 pm CET
* Community
  * Facilitate group communication \(chat, forum, newsletter etc\) by **Max** – some interesting conversation in the chat
  * Create information flows \(wiki, map\) by **Max** – we'll have the research group call just after ours
  * Establish processes within the network \(meetups, media\) by **Ela** – nice group energy emerging, we can build on that
* Co-Create Events
  * Web3 dgov track  by **Max** – 50%+ agenda filled, more then enough in the process, i also try to request funding $2-4k from aragon and dao stack if needed \(for recordings, flat, freebies and potentially 3 free tickets\)
  * Retreat in Ljubljana by **Anja** – was at the place, looks great, helpful people – will arrange everything. There would be a bday, but we'll tackle this. Concept paper looks great
  * Dgov track and devcon by **Max** – checked Lane's vision, it's only for 3 hours and already filled with content. Asked how to help but no ideas for now. 
* Launch dgov experiments
  * Funding with Seed DAO by **Tim** – we have a first iteration of the document, Ela has created a table of contents. There's also content we should dive into. Need a session to distribute the work. Have a look at the document. Maybe Phoebe can PM

## Tensions

### Tim / My help with Seed DAO needed?

Ela: would like to see how you structure the document. What are the contents that are not clear yet? E.g. membership program, roles etc – need to look deeper into that. To see whether you feel comfortable. Nothing specific for you input. But we need to find the work rhythm.

### Max / Feedback on the [web3 agenda](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1YypF12eqddO0adJF2PBje3mlrGZ6ZriL_Ay7HjTuqpc/edit#)

Please provide and advice who we should ask

### Ela / What is the common goal? Worried about the funding without the strategy

It's an ongoing thing. The more i'm engaging with the group the more I get the sense of the common goal. It's not documented or mapped down, but it's there. Trust we can get there through the collab work.

Martin: like the approach of letting things come. But would be nice to see what established practices we like to evaluate and know if things don't go so well.

Ela: is it about the content.

Martin: rather peer reviewing, as the process.

Ela: nice practice.

Phoebe: resonate with Martin. That's the idea behind the dgov Handbook. Using going horizontal as the framework. Linked resource for the process.

Martin: would love to peer review the handbook. \(Phoebe will share\). 

### Phoebe / Feedback on the paper for the retreat

Take the look and comment on [the paper](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1iMtwR7_DSz4U86F4riSf5KWbiUwDJCKzbo26pv-UyMk/edit?usp=sharing%20)

### Phoebe / When we're on top – what do we do with the rest of the time

Anja: what do you propose? Like short meetings

Phoebe: short meeting is ok. Have a reflection.

Max: right, while somebody wants to drive. E.g. mediation or what we can improve

Ela: like that,

Martin: should appreciate this. Liks short and sweet. But also can go through the team improvement, if we want.

### Phoebe / Where do i feel the most empowered with dgov?

Take for yourself

